so I tweet the other day a baby is
actually a couple months ago Wow not the
other day but it was a tweet that was
like hey stop promoting veganism as you
know an instant like weight loss tool or
like oh your skin's gonna instantly
clear up and you're gonna be like this
amazing perfect person and the blah blah
blah I definitely agree with that I
definitely used to advertise veganism as
this as well but I feel like oh like go
vegan you lose weight your skin will be
perfect blah blah blah and that's
definitely not the case and I say this
sometimes with different comments that I
get but I get comments that are like
Sonia like you're vegan why is your skin
not fair Sonia you're vegan why are you
not skinny and that's because veganism
is not a body type or a skin type the
first thing that may make you a bit
suspicious about this video is that I'm
sitting a little bit further back from
the camera and that's because this video
is about the body and it actually does
include my body my body is in some small
part questions its video the body health
fitness the vegan activism no intro new
outro no edits let's just go with this
look it crossed my desk that Jordan
Peterson world famous philosopher and
political leader Jordan Peterson is now
on a 100% meat diet if you look at the
blog kept by his daughter she is
boasting about how his depression and
anxiety have improved dramatically just
two days after going on to the the 100%
meat diet sorry so at the time that blog
entry had been written he'd only been on
the diet for a few days but I'm not sure
how many months have passed you can look
into the details if you like um on her
Instagram and in the video I had some
clips from you also see her boasting
about how she has managed to recover and
retain an aesthetically appealing body
on this 100% meat diet just five months
after pregnancy and childbirth okay
these are messages that will set the
imaginations of many viewers and
Peters on fire okay this is a propaganda
claim which above all else is
immediately familiar to me from veganism
this is the same crap I've seen on vegan
YouTube in vegan magazines even in vegan
academic discourse since I first got
involved with this movement it's no
different when people are promoting the
100% meat diet or when people are
promoting the 0% meat diet they called
themselves carnivores we call ourselves
vegans astoundingly we have this in
common and the basic message I've come
up with on this channel again and again
and again is the bikini body discourse
has to die it is neither more nor less
[ __ ] in the problems of our times
when we do it as vegans for a good cause
then when the carnivore people do it
from their perspective they are doing it
for a good cause they're doing it I mean
in the case of Jordan Peterson and his
daughter they're promoting eating meat
because they sincerely believe that it's
the cure for depression oh and he thinks
that postmodern Marxism is implausible
oh it's a lot easier for me to believe
that one day the workers are gonna rise
up and tear down the rich the mr. me to
believe that the cure for the cure for
depression is to be found in a bowl full
of beef ye gods anybody look with with
that aside I'm joking around a little
bit because it's it's a serious issue
and I got messages sent in to me from a
few different people which could put one
on camera saying in effect am i
insinuating that everyone who says they
lost weight effortlessly is a liar
everyone who makes this this type of
claim is being dishonest so yeah this is
where my my body comes into it we
digress briefly okay
currently by my own standards I am in
shape I'm not an athlete but I am by my
standards in shape alright there's a lot
of strength in the shoulder because the
mean exercise I rely on is doing
push-ups with my feet elevated almost in
my shoulder level so it's my
whole-body waiting list lifted on my
knuckles with every push-up and that's
also when my knuckles are discolored all
the time and I can do 200 in a day i
benchpress over 200 pounds I'm 39 years
old I'm not an athlete I spent all the
rest of my time with books and languages
you don't want to know well I wish I had
a job digging ditches I'd probably
better shape but I don't have a physical
I reduced job I'm not an athlete it
never was and never will be it would be
very easy for me to say to you as many
of these people say on the internet that
they lost weight and gained body
strength gain muscle effortlessly but
precisely the job of a journalist a
reporter or an intellectual or a
scientist for actually doing you know
research into this topic would be to
establish what effortlessly really means
those of you who follow my channel when
I first moved from Canada to Kunming
well that's actually it's not the first
time I moved it couldn't make but anyway
well the first time I did so while I had
a youtube channel I moved to Kunming
I lost weight and a gain muscle mass I
already had quite a bit of strength and
went over but people saw the percentage
of my body fat go down and I was not
just lifting more it was going to the
gym more often I was doing set of
exercises I didn't do when I was back in
Canada when I was in Canada I had only a
home gym and here I was working on a
real gym so my appearance changed it
felt effortless it seemed from my
perspective that of Zephyrs and it might
you know casual conversation a coffee
shop I might let it slip that it was
easy for me to make that transition to
lose that body fat and gain that
strength but if you just say okay let's
take out a pen and paper let's just draw
a flowchart of what you actually did in
a week okay the reason why it felt
effortless was because the other sources
of stress in my life were overwhelming
and terrible distractions while I was
there in conveying I was stressed out as
hell about my divorce I was stressed out
as hell about getting what are called
custody rights but they're really
visitation rights to see my daughter in
connection to my divorce dealing with
the lawyers I had a court case going on
completely unrelated core case going on
in Thailand I was in class face to face
with the teacher for four hours a day
five days a week very intensive learning
schedule every day I would write or
rewrite an essay a writing assignment in
addition to the time spent in the class
I was pouring an enormous amount of
energy into the study of languages I was
pouring a lot of energy into this
YouTube channel and you know I had a lot
of very real emotional anguish it
completely dwarfs the the physical equus
of going to the gym two and three times
a day
it seemed relaxing and easy for me to go
to the gym two or three times a day but
it's ridiculous and there's no way I can
say to anybody with a full-time job oh
you can get the same results I did on a
vegan diet all you have to do is subsist
on nothing but green vegetables and rice
you can see videos are back then
everyone should go to the gym two or
three times a day benchpress over 200
pounds 200 push-ups
you know dips upright row I can list all
the exercise sucked in right and a lot
of people look at that and say if you
consider that effortless what do you
qualify as effort alright
anyone who tells you this that they lost
50 pounds effortlessly etc you have to
look at this context you have to take
that next step if what we're doing is
real social science research or even
just real reporting as journalists when
I look at I mean originally I was
criticizing a specific film clip from
plant-based news when I look at the
photographs and film footage they show
there a lot of these women have breast
implants have undergone surgery to have
breast implants okay
that's self-evident can you call that
effortless like what is that word mean
if you've undergone surgery to change
your appearance now further there's no
cross examination there's no asking them
what were the efforts they made that
were outside of and supplemental to a
vegan diet which are very important
especially to get specific claims like
quote-unquote veganism
cure your acne you've got to go through
what are the other things they were
doing they could have been on three
medications and a medicated facial scrub
at the same time that they went through
thinking that could all just be passage
of time a lot of women have hormonal
acne when they went through puberty and
then in those couple of years after when
they happened to also become vegan
hormonal acne will clear up its sorts
for most for very large ginger people
you can look up the side of their face
yourself it's a phase of life that you
grow out of with their without
medication but they also may have been a
medication I have one female friend who
is a gym manager and I remember she was
talking me through the performance
enhancing drugs commonly used by women
now women do not use the same steroids
the same performance enhancing drugs
that male bodybuilders use but they use
a lot of performance-enhancing drugs
many people just say it's an epidemic
that you know it's such a large
percentage of people it's it's shocking
horrifying and I heard that from her
perspective as a gym manager she was
saying look when you look at these
results you know that women are showing
whether it's on Instagram or in
magazines were to have you there really
needs to be hard questions asked about
what performance-enhancing drugs they're
using whether those are drugs to lose
body fat or to maintain a lot of muscle
while but you know leaning out while
keeping a really lean physique well
losing losing body fat okay
and if you're talking about someone who
is already obviously engaged in plastic
surgery and Photoshop to alter their
appearance why would you start with the
June supposition that there are not
going to be any performance-enhancing
drugs well we don't do that with men
anymore it seems like as IDO and within
veganism guys like vegan games really
carried the flag for that of saying hey
we've got to think critically about what
are the male body images we're
presenting here how natural or unnatural
are they how many hours go into them at
the gym right but then beyond that like
I just said when I was living in Kunming
going to the gym was the only pleasure I
had in life so it's easy for me to say
to you it felt effortless to lose the
fat and to gain those'll I can say that
but and subjectively maybe it even feels
like it's true but objectively it's
utterly utterly wrong and
whether we're looking at men or women in
this case we're looking at women the
women who were in those videos promoted
by plant-based news of course there are
many other YouTube channels that do this
even if they say that for them
subjectively this feels effortless I
think I think it is our role the call
[ __ ] on that and to say no how many
hours a week are you putting in at the
gym how much work is it to have this
look to be so lean and so muscular and
to make your to either be a fitness
competitor or you know a bikini model or
the various chops these women are who
could possibly claim that this is
effortless and further who can claim
that it is any more effortless for the
vegans that it is for the people with a
meet a meet inclusive diet who get the
same results every day I go to the gym
the gym has plenty of guys who lift more
weight than me who are in better shape
than me and none of them are vegan right
pick up I've said this a million times
pick out any magazine like Cosmopolitan
magazine it's full of women who are
getting these same results as bikini
models or what have you and who are
eating meat every day all right so it is
possible it is achievable on a
meat-based diet and here in this video
I'm addressing an example which is the
most extreme this is someone on a 100%
meat diet no vegetables no grains just
beef is her diet and she claims she does
zero exercise I can believe that looking
at the pictures and these are the
results she gets five months after
pregnancy all right she's taking your
physical appearance she's making a kind
of propaganda claim out of it and I
think she is going to reap the same
rewards of fame and notoriety that so
many vegan leaders including most
obviously most odiously freelee the
banana girl did with their wild and
wacky but you know diet claims with
their claims they could eat I mean look
which is more absurd the claim that you
can eat an unlimited amount of calories
as long as their sugar that's freelee
the banana girl and durianrider
unlimited calories while losing weight
while maintaining that big
bikini-ready body beach beach beach
bikini by whatever turf they use sorry
or is it more absurd to claim you can
calorie restrict and eat a meat-based
diet whether that's 100% meat or 50%
meat or what have you which one of those
really is more observed right they're
both stupid but actually the diet fads
we've had go on within veganism are more
absurd than the claims that are being
made by meat eaters and the claims being
made by meat eaters will always win
because they're covered by Cosmopolitan
magazine by fashion television by I
don't know surfers television channels
I've never watch every Channel about
athletes and models and actors and
actresses every day is broadcasting the
information about how you yes you can
have a bikini body now now now
effortlessly easily by doing kung-fu by
doing Brazilian Jujitsu when ten easy
steps with 200 push-ups eat what I eat
feel like I feel look like I look and
you know what you can set goals for
yourself and you can achieve those goals
but the questions we have to ask as
vegans are are you taking ethical
responsibility for what is you doing
with your life are you taking ecological
responsibility for what you do in your
life and do you even care about your
physical health long-term because if you
don't that one's got to come off the
list
altogether I got bad news for you guys
Jordan Peterson he's not about to drop
dead of scurvy just like historical
populations that existed in Mongolia and
northern Canada you actually can survive
for quite a long time on a meat-based
diet honey we're not all gonna get the
satisfaction of sitting back and saying
I told you so after only a couple months
of these nutcases being on this diet as
not how it works okay read the history
of Mongolia you know
what we've got to argue for is that
people should do the right thing because
it's the right thing to do
[Music]
evolution